# Introduction

Procedural generation is a powerful tool that can be used to create specific, unique, and immersive content on a case by case basis, as opposed to hand-crafting every facet of the game. This allows game developers to create systems to give their players infinite or unique worlds to play in, character animations that adapt to their environments, music that changes to fit the mood, and much more. Popular games such as Minecraft, Spelunky, the Binding of Isaac, No Man’s Sky, and many others leverage random number generators with procedural techniques to generate their levels and worlds so that each playthrough is unique. Procedural animation is used in countless games for everything from turning a player's head to generating smoke to ragdoll physics. For a game development company, the ability to create procedural systems allows for more flexible content that can, in turn, make a more immersive and enjoyable player experience.

This independent study will focus on three types of procedural content: procedural world/level generation, procedural animation, and procedural music. For each of these three facets of procedural content, we will gather resources and present them on a webpage to make the learning process easier for future game developers and present a small-scale demo to demonstrate one of the techniques. At the end of the semester, we will make a small game demo that utilizes techniques from all three disciplines of procedural content that we will present to a public audience.
